--- Page 1 ---
2020 International Conferences on Internet of Things (iThings) and IEEE Green Computing and Communications (GreenCom)
and IEEE Cyber, Physical and Social Computing (CPSCom) and IEEE Smart Data (SmartData) and IEEE Congress on
Internet of Things based Construction and Health Monitoring of
High-pier Long-span Continuous Rigid Frame Bridge
YuhangLiu Chan Wu Hengshan Wu*
School of Civil Engineering University of South China School of Civil Engineering
University of South China Hengyang, China University of South China
Hengyang, China M25agion@163.com
Hengyang, China
lyh13135188101@sina.com
wuhs661158@sina.com
Yuan Zhang
School of Civil Engineering
University of South China
Hengyang, China
822046802@qq.com
Abstract—This paper studies the network system construction stage in real time, and compare with the finite
framework of construction and health monitoringfor high-pier element modeling data to make corrections. Bridge
long-span continuous steel bridges based on the Internet of construction monitoring system includes real-time
Things. First, use midas/civil to establish a finite element measurement system, data acquisition system, data
analysis model, perform construction simulation calculations, processing system, data storage system, linear and stress
study the changes in the stress and deflection of the main beam early warning system, etc. [1.2].
during the maximum cantilever state, mid-span closing, and
ten-year shrinkage and creep, and determine the key control Bridge health monitoring uses modern sensing
The cross-section and control parameters provide a theoretical technology, communication technology and calculation and
basis for the framework of the health monitoring network analysis technology to monitor the external load, natural
system; secondly, combining the theoretical analysis results of environment and structural response of the bridge, so as to
the Wentang Bridge, the construction monitoring status and obtain the working state of the bridge in real time. Through
integrating it into the health monitoring system, the integration data collection, analysis, processing and analysis of the
of sensor distribution, software equipment, and information structural status make judgments and maketimely warnings
technology is proposed Designed and established a complete of the potential risks of the bridge [3-5]. The information
network system framework for construction and health needed for construction and health monitoring, including
monitoring of high-pier and large-span continuous steel bridge load information, geometric information, stress
bridges. The application of Internet of Things technology to information, environmental status information, etc., is
bridge monitoring (control) realizes the effectiveness and mediated by Internet or communication network, through
intelligence of bridge monitoring (control) information, and two-way transmission and query of network information,
ensures the safety and reliability of the bridge structure. summarized in real time in bridge monitoring (control) Cloud
platform, through intelligent calculation analysis and
Keywords—Internet of Things; rigid frame bridge; intelligent, real-time evaluation strategy, to achieve high
construction monitoring;bridge health monitoring. precision, high intelligence and high efficiency of bridge
monitoring [6]. Based on Wen Tang Super Bridge, this
Introduction article studies the integration of bridge construction
monitoring system and health monitoring system. The
The high-pier large-span rigid frame bridge is a special
integrated intelligent bridge monitoring method based on
bridge type, which is difficult to construct. In the construction
Internet of things is the combination of traditional bridge
process of high-pier large-span continuous rigid frame bridge,
construction monitoring method and health monitoring
bridge construction monitoring is a very important step. The
theory and practical experience. Comprehensive use of
key to construction monitoring is to control the stress and
bridge engineering, modern wireless sensors, big data
deflection of the main beam to ensure that the bridge reaches
analysis, Internet of things technology, computer technology,
the linearity and stress state required by the design.
damage identification and structural safety assessment and
Construction monitoring is to find the key control section
other modern technologies and equipment, to facilitate the
during the bridge construction process, analyze the structural
design and implementation of the system [7-10].
internal forces and deformation parameters in each
978-1-7281-7647-5/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE 276
DOI 10.1109/iThings-GreenCom-CPSCom-SmartData-Cybermatics50389.2020.00060
Authorized licensed use limited to: Southeast University. Downloaded on February 12,2026 at 13:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

--- Page 2 ---
I. ANALYSIS OF CONSTRUCTION MONITORING DATA the theoretical displacement value is the basis of the linear
control of the bridge, and the theoretical stress value is the
A. Project Overview
basis of the bridge stress control. According to the software,
The main bridge of Wen Tang Bridge is (95+180+95)
the pre-camber value of each section of the construction
continuous rigid frame main beam adopts prestressed
process is calculated, the deformation value of the hanging
concrete variable cross-section cantilever box girder, box
basket is obtained according to the pre-compression test, and
girder is left and right split single box single room cross
the design elevation is added to calculate the vertical form
section, the upper structure box girder uses C55 concrete The
elevation of each stage. The finite element analysis software
height of the main beam and the bottom plate are changed by
was used to study the changes of the stress and deflection of
1.8 times of parabola. The height of the root beam of the
the main beam during the process of maximum cantilever
fulcrum in the box beam is 1160cm, and the height of the
state, mid-span closing, and ten-year contraction and creep.
beam in the mid-span and side-span is 350cm. The
Figure.2. Distribution map of maximum cantilever state,
superstructure of the main bridge adopts longitudinal,
mid-span closing, ten-year contraction and creep stress(cid:712)and
horizontal and vertical prestressed systems. The main bridge
Fig.3. Distribution of maximum cantilever state, mid-span
pier adopts C50 concrete, and the main pier No. 4 and 5 adopt
closing, ten-year contraction and creep deflection.
double-limb thin-wall pier, and the foundation adopts pile
During the maximum cantilever state during
cap foundation.
construction, the cumulative deflection of the side span
B. Finite element modeling reaches a maximum of -44.76mm; the cumulative deflection
of the middle span reaches a maximum of -41.15mm; the
This paper uses Midas/Civil to perform finite element
maximum point of compressive stress appears in the side
analysis on Wen Tang Bridge, and the model is shown in
span with a value of 10.90 MPa; the maximum compressive
Figure.1. The finite element model can simulate various
stress of the mid span occurs At 1/4 section, the value is 10.82
construction stages, and can fully consider the influence of
MPa.
the shrinkage and creep of the main beam and the loss of
In the closed state of the mid-span, the accumulated
prestress on the internal force according to the characteristics
deflection of the side span is up to -40.74mm; the
of the continuous rigid frame bridge.
accumulated deflection of the middle span is up to -38.47mm;
The simulated construction stage of the bridge can be
the maximum point of the compressive stress of the side span
divided into 52 stages, and most of the stress stages from the
appears in the middle of the span, the value is 11.15MPa; the
completion of the pier to the 10 years after the completion of
maximum compressive stress of the middle span appears in
the bridge girder are summarized .The software defines the
the span In the middle, the value is 13.66 MPa.
assumed various factors and basic structures as structural
Ten years of shrinkage and creep, the cumulative
groups, load groups, and boundary groups, and simulates the
deflection of the side span reaches a maximum of -49.05mm;
entire construction through activation and passivation among
the cumulative deflection of the mid span reaches a
the three groups.
maximum of -43.50mm; the maximum point of the
The specific data are as follows: (1) Structure group:
compressive stress of the side span appears in the middle of
main pier, main beam 22 segments, side span cast-in-place
the span, the value is 10.84 MPa; the maximum compressive
section, side middle span helong section, block 0#; (2)
stress of the middle span appears at At mid-span, the value is
boundary group: main side pier permanent support, 0# block
10.15MPa.
cast-in-place, side span cast-in-place, main side pier rigid
connection, main pier temporary wind rigid connection, side D. Parameter sensitivity analysis
pier temporary rigid connection; (3) load group: hanging
During the construction process, different design
basket, wet weight, prestress, weight, second Period load.
parameters have different effects on the structural state. The
change of parameters directly affects the deformation and
internal force of the structure, and the design parameters that
affect the state of the bridge structure (force and deformation)
mainly include: (cid:311) structural geometry parameters; (cid:312)
material characteristic parameters; (cid:313) section characteristic
parameters; (cid:314) load parameters; (cid:315) and Time-related
parameters, such as shrinkage and creep [11]. This article
mainly takes the deflection of the main beam (side span and
middle span) after the ten-year contraction and creep of the
Fig. 1. Finite element modeling. completed bridge as the control target, mainly analyzes the
parameter sensitivity of the concrete bulk density and
C. Analysis of calculation results
concrete elastic modulus, and the pipeline friction coefficient
Using Midas/Civil to analyze the displacement and
and pipeline deviation coefficient . These data have little
stress of the continuous beam during the construction process,
277
Authorized licensed use limited to: Southeast University. Downloaded on February 12,2026 at 13:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

--- Page 3 ---
effect on deflection, so this paper does not analyze the
deflection [12]. Each parameter changes by 10% to see its
effect on structural deformation. The main design parameters
of sensitivity analysis are shown in Table (cid:265), and the
influence of deflection is shown in Figure .4. ~Figure.5.
TABLE I. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF MAIN DESIGN PARAMETERS
Parameter value
Analysis parameters Design 10% 10%
value increase reduction
Bulkdensity(KN/m³) 26 28.6 23.4
Modulus of elasticity(MPa) 35500 39050 31950
Figure.4. The influence of concrete elastic modulus ondeflection
Figure. 2. Distribution map of maximum cantilever state, mid-span closing,
ten-year contraction and creep stress.
Figure 5 Effect of concrete bulk density on deflection
The results show that the influence range of concrete
elastic modulus on deflection is within 10%, and the
maximum influence range of concrete bulk density on
deflection can reach 34%. It can be concluded from the
data,oncrete elastic modulus and bulk density are the key
factors that need to be controlled during the bridge formation
process. The pipeline friction coefficient and pipeline
deviation coefficient not studied in this paper need not be
considered.
II. INTEGRATED RESEARCH ON CONSTRUCTION AND
HEALTH MONITORING
With regard to the characteristics of the high-pier large-
span of WenTang Super Bridge, the integrated design of the
Fig.3. Distribution of maximum cantilever state, mid-span closing, ten-year bridge's construction monitoring system and long-term health
contraction and creep deflection monitoring system is established based on the theoretical
analysis results of Wen Tang Super Bridge. The design
includes the following points. 1) For the characteristics of the
278
Authorized licensed use limited to: Southeast University. Downloaded on February 12,2026 at 13:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

--- Page 4 ---
bridge at different construction stages and after the bridge is health monitoring deflection under the ten-year contraction
completed, design sensors are integrated for distribution, and creep state, realizes the integrated design of the
reasonable control section is set, test equipment is optimally construction and health monitoring displacement sensor
arranged and pre-buried in advance.2) The integrated design distribution, which can be obtained from the analysis of
of software equipment adopts supporting software products Figure 3 above: The cumulative maximum deflection in the
with mature technology and high cost performance to ensure span is at 1/4 section, while the cumulative maximum
the stability and accuracy of the system and the reliability of deflection in the middle is at 1/3 section. The monitoring
the system, and meet the needs of system improvement, section layout ofthe displacement sensor of the main bridge
improvement and update. 3) The integrated design of is shown in Figure.7. There are a total of 9 test sections, of
information technology, the use of Internet of Things, cloud which 2-4 sections are mid-span sections, 2-2, 2-6 sections
computing, big data and other information technologies to are fulcrum sections, 2-1, 2-7 sections are 1/4 sections, 2-3,
establish a complete set of bridge monitoring (control) 2-5 sections At 1/3 section.
system to make the bridge safer and more reliable, step into
a new informatization, technology and Technological era.
A. Integrated design of stress sensors for construction and
health monitoring
When designing the bridge wireless stress sensor, the
ZigBee wireless short-range data transmission function is
used, and the low-power design supports multi-level sleep
and wake-up modes to minimize power consumption. The
Figure. 6. Layout of the monitoring section of the main bridge stress
communication distance is large, from the standard 75m to
sensor
hundreds of meters, several kilometers, and supports
unlimited expansion. The optimal layout of wireless stress
sensors has also become a key point. Combining the
monitoring of the construction stage and the health
monitoring stress distribution under the ten-year contraction
and creep state, the integrated design of construction and
health monitoring stress sensor distribution is realized. 2
Analysis shows that the maximum stress points of the main
span and side span are concentrated in the mid-span position,
and the 1/4 section is relatively large. The monitoring section
layout of the stress sensor of the main bridge is shown in
Figure.6. There are a total of 11 test sections, including 1-1,
Figure.7. Layout of monitoring cross section of main bridge displacement
1-6 and 1-11 cross-sections, 1-3 and 1-9 cross-sections, and
sensor
1-4 and 1-8 cross-sections. Sections 1-5 and 1-7 are at 1/8
section. The optimized layout of the stress sensor can quickly
and efficiently monitor the real-time stress state of the bridge
and ensure the safety and reliability of the structure. B. Integrated design of construction and health
During the displacement monitoring of the bridge, under monitoringsoftware equipment
the action of wind load, vehicle load and brake load, the
Software subsystem mainly includes data acquisition
measurement points will produce lateral, longitudinal and
software subsystem, data processing software subsystem,
vertical displacements. Thus,Long-term displacement
database software subsystem, user interface software
monitoring in multiple directions is required. The distance
subsystem, mobile application software subsystem. In order
measured by the old sensor system changes, and the value
to meet the simultaneous needs of construction and health
obtained does not meet the actual engineering needs, so the
monitoring, the integration of related software can be
optical fiber ultrasonic three-dimensional displacement
achieved. Due to the different goals of construction and
sensor is used in the bridge. The optical fiber ultrasonic
health monitoring, the software has different functional
three-dimensional displacement sensor system can not only
requirements, and the software should be comprehensively
ensure the accuracy of large displacement and small
designed to form the integration of construction and health
displacement in one direction of the measuring point, but also
monitoringsoftware and equipment.
measure the three-dimensional displacement of the
measuring point with high precision [13]. The optimal
arrangement of displacement sensors, combined with the
monitoring of the construction stage and the distribution of
279
Authorized licensed use limited to: Southeast University. Downloaded on February 12,2026 at 13:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

--- Page 5 ---
C. Integrated design of construction and health
monitoringinformation technology
Based on the latest Internet of Things, cloud computing,
big data and other information technologies, a new
construction and health monitoring system is established.
The Internet of Things, cloud computing and big data
processing are the three important guarantees for the
development of monitoring (control) systems, Supported by
the powerful computing, storage and compatibility
capabilities of the cloud platform, to achieve networked and
intensive management [14]. The use of big data storage and
management, intelligent mining and intelligent processing
of massive data in the later period, to achieve the accuracy
and effectiveness of bridge data. The design scheme of the
system is mainly based on the wireless sensor network
(WSN) [15], which can be adapted to both construction and
health monitoring. Therefore, it is more suitable for the
construction of bridge monitoring (control) systems. The
Figure. 9. Flowchart of integrated design of bridge monitoring (control)
system provides more comprehensive basic data, and uses
real-time wireless transmission technology to transfer data
The integration of the bridge monitoring (control)
to the bridge monitoring (control) cloud platform built. The
system fully considers the optimization of the construction of
integrated design scheme is shown in Figure.8.
the new bridge itself and the layout of the health monitoring
system during the operation period and the sharing of
monitoring data, the consistency of later data processing and
software operations, and reduces the system software base of
a single project. Development and construction costs, while
significantly improving project management, operation and
maintenance efficiency. Considering the long-term interests
of the country and locality, the concept of integrated design
of construction and health monitoring system during
operation period will contribute to the significant
improvement of bridge construction and maintenance
management.
III. IN CONCLUSION
Figure .8. Integration of information technology (1) Taking the actual bridge under construction as the
background, Due to the tensioning of the prestressed steel
beam, the deflection decreases correspondingly, while the
D. Integrated design of construction and health maximum compressive stress at the middle span section of
monitoringsystem the middle span is 13.66mpa. With the change of time, the
deflection of side span and middle span increases
The integrated design of construction and health
correspondingly, and the maximum rate of change can reach
monitoring system during operation period, in the state of
20.42%.
construction monitoring of WenTang Super Bridge, and the
(2) The elastic modulus and bulk density of concrete are two
integration of structural health monitoring system, a brand
key factors that need to be controlled in the process of bridge
new bridge monitoring (control) system was established. It
construction. The influence range of concrete elastic modulus
integrates the traditional monitoring mode and uses modern
on deflection is within 10%, while the maximum influence
brand-new wireless sensors, cloud platforms, big data
range of concrete bulk density is up to 34%.
processing, and Internet of Things technologies. As shown in
(3) To establish a set of bridge construction monitoring
Figure 9, the integrated design flow chart of bridge
system and health monitoring system based on sensor
monitoring (control).
distribution, software and information technology integration
design, the construction and health monitoring organic
combination, can effectively reduce the cost. In addition, the
280
Authorized licensed use limited to: Southeast University. Downloaded on February 12,2026 at 13:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

--- Page 6 ---
measured data of construction monitoring, the calculation [6] Cao Xiaoyi, “Research on Integrated System of Intelligent
model of construction monitoring and the calculation process Construction Control and Health Monitoring” J. Urban roads and
of each stage are carried out cloud database, which is bridges and flood control(cid:712)2016.
convenient for the bridge health monitoring data to be [7] Yu Yan, Xingquan Mao,“Design and Implementation of a Structural
separated at any time The analysis of transfer and initial state Health Monitoring System for a Large Sea-Crossing Project with
is more conducive to the structural maintenance and Bridges and Tunnel ” J. Shock and Vibration(cid:15914)2019.
construction operation period of the bridge.
[8] Liu Jian,“Analysis of Bridge Health Monitoring System under the
(4) With the continuous progress of science and technology
Background of Internet of Things” J. China Highway(cid:15914)2020.
and the rapid development of the Internet of things, the
[9] Bin Gao, Gui Y un Tian,“Structural Health Monitoring Framework
relationship between bridge monitoring and Internet of things
Basedon Internet of Things: A Survey ” J. IEEE INTERNET OF
is deepening. In the future era, intelligent monitoring,
THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 4, NO. 3, JUNE 2017.
intelligent sensors and big data analysis will emerge from
bridge monitoring (control). [10] He Lei,“Research on Bridge Health Monitoring System Based on
Internet of Things”D. Chongqing Jiaotong University, 2016.
REFERENCES
[11] Xu Yangyang, “Shrinkage and Creep Analysis of High-pier Long-
[1] Li Xiaolong, Yan Xin, Wang Xiaojing,“Research on Bridge Structure span Continuous Rigid Frame Bridge During Operation” J. Sichuan
Monitoring System and Method of Overall Construction and Use Architecture, 2013.
Status”J. Highway Transportation Technology, 2013. [12] Yang Peng, “(108+190+108)m Continuous rigid frame bridge
[2] Liu Jian,“Research on Monitoring Theory and Monitoring System of construction monitoring research and practice” D. Shijiazhuang
Continuous Rigid Frame Bridge Construction ” D. Changan Railway University, 2018.
University,2014. [13] Zhao Yangyang, “Optimal Research on Optical Fiber Ultrasonic
[3] Li Xiao, “Health monitoring and data analysis of long-span Displacement Sensor System Based on Multimode Interference” D.
continuous rigid frame bridge ”D. Changan University, 2017. Southeast University, 2018.
[4] Zhou Yue,Zhu Yi, Li Gaotang,Wang Huanxin,Qiao Shengfang, [14] Liang Zhu, “Bridge health monitoring cloud platform based on big
“Analysis on the Status Quo of Research on Bridge Intelligent Health data architecture” J. China Transportation Informatization, 2020.
Monitoring”J. Guangzhou Architecture, 2019. [15] Xia Peng, “Wireless intelligent monitoring system for bridge
[5] Cai Ming,“Long-span bridge structure health monitoring system”J. structure health” D. South China University of Technology, 2019.
Urban roads and bridges and flood control(cid:712)2019.
281
Authorized licensed use limited to: Southeast University. Downloaded on February 12,2026 at 13:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.